Foundations / Installation Overview:  Preliminary WSL2 Introduction (#25402)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: foundations/installations/installations.md

With the recent addition of being able to run a Linux terminal, the ChromeOS platform has been opened up to the ability to install native Linux applications. If you wish to use your Chromebook to complete The Odin Project, you will need to ensure you meet a couple requirements:

1.  You have a supported Chromebook:
    - [Official Chromebooks](https://www.chromium.org/chromium-os/chrome-os-systems-supporting-linux)
    - [ChromeOS Flex Chromebooks](https://support.google.com/chromeosflex/answer/11513094)
2.  You can install Linux by following [these instructions](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en)

Once you have successfully met both of these requirements, you should be able to follow along with the Linux instructions throughout the entire curriculum.

</details>

<details markdown="block">
<summary class="dropDown-header">WSL</summary>

Windows Subsystem for Linux (usually abbreviated as WSL) lets you run a Linux environment from within an existing Windows installation, giving you all of the advantages of Linux without needing to run a virtual machine or dual boot.

> WSL is available on Windows 10 version 2004 and higher (Build 19041 and higher) and Windows 11.

Reviewer: I'll move everything to WSL2

<div class="lesson-note">
<h4>WSL and Linux instructions</h4>
Because WSL is a full fledged Linux distribution, almost everything that the curriculum teaches about Linux is also applicable to WSL. In future lessons whenever there are instructions that differ by OS you should follow the Linux instructions, unless the lesson includes WSL specific instructions.
</div>

### Step 1: Installations

#### Step 1.1: WSL and Hyper-V

> If you've previously used another software to run a virtual machine, such as Oracle VirtualBox, you might have turned off Hyper-V to improve performance of the virtual machine.

Reviewer: Yeah thats a fair point

> If you've previously used another software to run a virtual machine, such as Oracle VirtualBox, you might have turned off Hyper-V to improve performance of the virtual machine.

Reviewer 2: From my understanding, Hyper-V is not actually required to Run WSL2, What is required is `Windows Subsystem for Linux` and `Virtual Machine Platform`, the latter is a subset of Hyper-V which probably why turning Hyper-V on would fix an issue that is happening.

I did some research, and It seems the problem with Hyper-V is that it's not available on all Windows versions and only Windows Pro. However, `Virtual Machine Platform` is available, we should stick to that in my opinion.

> If you've previously used another software to run a virtual machine, such as Oracle VirtualBox, you might have turned off Hyper-V to improve performance of the virtual machine.

Reviewer: You're right; corrected

Hyper-V is required to get WSL to work however, so in order to use it you'll first have to re enable Hyper-V, which may interfere with existing installations.

- Search for Control Panel in your applications, and open it
- Select **Programs**
- Select **Turn Windows Features on or off** (under the Programs and Features header)

> - Select **Hyper-V**, toggle the checkbox to checked, and click **OK**

Reviewer: Done

- When prompted, restart your computer

#### Step 1.2: Installing WSL

> - Open PowerShell in administrator mode by searching for it in your applications, right clicking, and then selecting run as administrator

Reviewer: Will add

- Enter the following command

~~~powershell
wsl --install
~~~

- After a few minutes you'll be prompted to enter a new username. This username should be lowercase, but can otherwise be whatever suits you. You'll also need to enter a new password.

#### Step 1.3.1: Install Windows Terminal (Windows 10 only)

Windows Terminal is an terminal application that lets you more easily customize and run terminals, as well as supporting multiple tabs which can each run their own different terminals.

- Follow [Microsoft's guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/terminal/install) to install Windows Terminal.

#### Step 1.3.2: Setting WSL as default (Optional)

Unless you are regularly using other terminals on your computer we recommend that you set WSL as the default terminal program when you open Windows Terminal. You can follow the [section on setting a default profile](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/terminal/install#set-your-default-terminal-application) in the guide above to set it to Ubuntu.

### Step 2 Opening WSL

> On Windows there are two primary ways to open WSL: either via the terminal or via the app icon.

Reviewer 3: I think there's a third:
search for `terminal` (the program we just installed), open it and select `Ubuntu` from the dropdown next to the `Windows PowerShell` tab

Reviewer: Yeah; I think this is just a case of me shuffling steps around while writing; will add

- If you set Windows Terminal to open a Ubuntu terminal by default you can start a new WSL session by simply opening the terminal app.

> - If you search for Ubuntu in the application search bar you should see a application titled Ubuntu; simply open it to start a new terminal session.

Reviewer 3: I didn't set `Windows Terminal` to default in the above step, and when I search for Ubuntu in the search bar, it will open an Ubuntu terminal that looks different from when I search `terminal`, open that and set it to Ubuntu. 

This might not be a bad thing, but I also have no clue if it is. It sure doesn't look like it opened the terminal app I just downloaded.

Reviewer: How different? Just color wise? Because yes, thats a weird thing I've noticed before and I think it has to do with how default color profiles work

Reviewer 3: @Asartea entirely different. Like different program different, including the icons in the taskbar. I will send a picture of it later

<div class="lesson-note lesson-note--warning">
When opening WSL ensure that you do not see /mnt/c at the start of the line. /mnt/c is where your Windows installation lives when working within WSL, and messing around there can have unintended consequences
</div>

### Step 3: WSL and systemd

`systemd` is a system and service manager for Linux that you'll use much later in the curriculum. While it doesn't work on WSL by default, you can enable it.

- Open a new WSL terminal window.
- Enter the following command:

~~~bash
sudo nano /etc/wsl.conf
~~~

> - When prompted for a password enter the password you set earlier. You may notice that while entering your password you don't see any visual feedback. This is an intentional security measure, and nothing to worry about.

Reviewer 3: As mentioned earlier; this should be mentioned at the initial password creation :) here a note could be added (you'll again not see any visual feedback upon entering, or something along those lines)

Reviewer: Yeah I've seen this behavior before, and as far as I can figure out No 1 is a normal terminal launched via the app icon it adds, while No 2 is launched via Windows Terminal, which for some reason configures a default color profile for Ubuntu. Should make no practical difference

Reviewer 3: can't find this section anymore

Reviewer: I dumped `systemd` for now as it was causing some people (including me) to have broken VSCode installations. Instructions on how to use it via WSL might still be useful, but I think thats better suited for a follow up issue

- You'll be shown `nano`, a text editor for Linux. Enter the following two lines

~~~
[boot]
systemd=true

> ~~~

Reviewer 3: This was already there for me for some reason

Reviewer: Hmmmm, wasn't there for me on W11 having never touched the file; will add a note that if the text is already there you can disregard the rest of the instructions

Reviewer 3: can't find this section anymore

Reviewer: See above

Reviewer: I dumped systemd for now as it was causing some people (including me) to have broken VSCode installations. Instructions on how to use it via WSL might still be useful, but I think thats better suited for a follow up issue

- It should now look like this:

![Nano window](installations/imgs/21_nano_systemd.png)

- Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>O</kbd>, then when prompted with which file name to write to press <kbd>Enter</kbd>, and then press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>X</kbd> to exit `nano`
- Close all open WSL terminal windows
- Run the following command in Powershell (**not** WSL) to restart WSL

~~~powershell
wsl.exe --shutdown
~~~

> - `systemd` should now be working. You can test this by running `systemctl list-unit-files --type=service`, which should return a long list of services.

Reviewer 3: 1. We are still inside the `PowerShell`, should be noted to run this command in a new WSL/Ubuntu terminal
2. Add a note on how to close the output with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>z</kbd>

Reviewer 3: can't find this section anymore

Reviewer: See above

With the recent addition of being able to run a Linux terminal, the ChromeOS platform has been opened up to the ability to install native Linux applications. If you wish to use your Chromebook to complete The Odin Project, you will need to ensure you meet a couple requirements:

1.  You have a supported Chromebook:
    - [Official Chromebooks](https://www.chromium.org/chromium-os/chrome-os-systems-supporting-linux)
    - [ChromeOS Flex Chromebooks](https://support.google.com/chromeosflex/answer/11513094)
2.  You can install Linux by following [these instructions](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en)

Once you have successfully met both of these requirements, you should be able to follow along with the Linux instructions throughout the entire curriculum.

</details>

<details markdown="block">
<summary class="dropDown-header">WSL2</summary>

Using WSL2 is an quick and easy way to get started with using Linux, allowing you to run a Linux distribution from within Windows. WSL2 is available on Windows 10 version 2004 and higher (Build 19041 and higher) and Windows 11.

> <div class="lesson-note">
> <h4>WSL2 and Linux instructions</h4>
> Because WSL2 is a full-fledged Linux distribution, almost everything that the curriculum teaches about Linux is also applicable to WSL2. In future lessons, whenever there are instructions that differ by OS, you should follow the Linux instructions, unless the lesson includes WSL2-specific instructions.
> </div>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<div class="lesson-note" markdown="1">
<h4>WSL2 and Linux instructions</h4>
Because WSL2 is a full-fledged Linux distribution, almost everything that the curriculum teaches about Linux is also applicable to WSL2. In future lessons, whenever there are instructions that differ by OS, you should follow the Linux instructions, unless the lesson includes WSL2-specific instructions.
</div>
```

`markdown="1"` should be present in note blocks (already an open issue or PR in the making to change this is styleguide)

- Ensure both `Windows Subsystem for Linux` and `Virtual Machine Platform` are toggled on, and if not toggle them on.
- When prompted, restart your computer

#### Step 1.2: Installing WSL2

- Open PowerShell in administrator mode by searching for it in your applications, right clicking the top option, and then selecting run as administrator. You might get a prompt asking if you want to allow Windows Powershell to make changes to your device: click yes.
- Enter the following command

  ~~~powershell
  wsl --install
  ~~~
- After a few minutes you'll be prompted to reboot your computer; do so.
- You should see an open Powershell window, prompting you to enter a username and a password. Your username should be lowercase, but can otherwise be whatever suits you. You'll also need to enter a new password.
- When entering your password you might notice that you aren't seeing any visual feedback. This is a standard security feature in Linux, and will also happen in all future cases where you need to enter a password. Just type your password and hit <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

#### Step 1.3.1: Install Windows Terminal (Windows 10 only)

> Windows Terminal is an terminal application that lets you more easily customize and run terminals, as well as supporting multiple tabs which can each run their own different terminals.

Author: ```suggestion
Windows Terminal is a terminal application that lets you more easily customize and run terminals, as well as supporting multiple tabs which can each run their own different terminals.
```

- [Install Window's Terminal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/terminal/install) by using the direct install option.

#### Step 1.3.2: Setting WSL2 as default (Optional)

Unless you are regularly using other terminals on your computer we recommend that you set WSL2 as the default terminal program when you open Windows Terminal.

- Open Windows Terminal by searching for terminal in your applications.
- Click the dropdown next to the new tab button (at the top of the windows), and select Settings.
- You should see a Default Profile option with a dropdown next to it.
- In the dropdown select Ubuntu.
- Click save at the bottom of the page.

### Step 2 Opening WSL2

On Windows there are three primary ways to open WSL2.

- If you set Windows Terminal to open a Ubuntu terminal by default you can start a new WSL2 session by opening the terminal app.
- Otherwise you can open Windows Terminal, click the dropdown next to the new tab button (at the top of the windows), and select Ubuntu.
- If you search for Ubuntu in the application search bar you should see a application titled Ubuntu; open it to start a new terminal session.

> <div class="lesson-note lesson-note--tip">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<div class="lesson-note lesson-note--tip" markdown="1">
```

You might notice when you open WSL2 via Windows Terminal, you'll see a window with a different color scheme and a different icon compared to opening a terminal through Ubuntu in your applications. This is because Windows Terminal comes with a default color scheme for Ubuntu meant to emulate how a real Ubuntu terminal looks. This difference is purely cosmetic, and there is no practical difference between the two.
</div>

> <div class="lesson-note lesson-note--warning">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<div class="lesson-note lesson-note--warning" markdown="1">
```

Reviewer 3: and maybe consider a header to quickly see what the warning (and previous tip) is about

Reviewer: Suggestions on a name? Having some trouble with coming up with one that fits both

> When opening your WSL2 terminal ensure that you do not see /mnt/c at the start of the line. /mnt/c is where your Windows installation lives when working within WSL2, and messing around there can have unintended consequences

Author: ```suggestion
When opening your WSL2 terminal ensure that you do not see /mnt/c at the start of the line. /mnt/c is where your Windows installation lives when working within WSL2, and messing around there can have unintended consequences.
```

With the recent addition of being able to run a Linux terminal, the ChromeOS platform has been opened up to the ability to install native Linux applications. If you wish to use your Chromebook to complete The Odin Project, you will need to ensure you meet a couple requirements:

1.  You have a supported Chromebook:
    - [Official Chromebooks](https://www.chromium.org/chromium-os/chrome-os-systems-supporting-linux)
    - [ChromeOS Flex Chromebooks](https://support.google.com/chromeosflex/answer/11513094)
2.  You can install Linux by following [these instructions](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en)

Once you have successfully met both of these requirements, you should be able to follow along with the Linux instructions throughout the entire curriculum.

</details>

<details markdown="block">
<summary class="dropDown-header">WSL2</summary>

Using WSL2 is an quick and easy way to get started with using Linux, allowing you to run a Linux distribution from within Windows. WSL2 is available on Windows 10 version 2004 and higher (Build 19041 and higher) and Windows 11.

<div class="lesson-note">
<h4>WSL2 and Linux instructions</h4>

> Because WSL2 is a full fledged Linux distribution, almost everything that the curriculum teaches about Linux is also applicable to WSL2. In future lessons whenever there are instructions that differ by OS you should follow the Linux instructions, unless the lesson includes WSL2 specific instructions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because WSL2 is a full-fledged Linux distribution, almost everything that the curriculum teaches about Linux is also applicable to WSL2. In future lessons, whenever there are instructions that differ by OS, you should follow the Linux instructions, unless the lesson includes WSL2-specific instructions.
```
nits

</div>

### Step 1: Installations

#### Step 1.1: WSL2 and Virtual Machine Platform

In order to make WSL2 work we'll first need to ensure both `Windows Subsystem for Linux` and `Virtual Machine Platform` are enabled on your system.

- Search for Control Panel in your applications, and open it
- Select **Programs**
- Select **Turn Windows Features on or off** (under the Programs and Features header)
- Ensure both `Windows Subsystem for Linux` and `Virtual Machine Platform` are toggled on, and if not toggle them on.
- When prompted, restart your computer

#### Step 1.2: Installing WSL2

- Open PowerShell in administrator mode by searching for it in your applications, right clicking the top option, and then selecting run as administrator. You might get a prompt asking if you want to allow Windows Powershell to make changes to your device: click yes.
- Enter the following command

> ~~~powershell
> wsl --install
> ~~~
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ~~~powershell
  wsl --install
  ~~~
```

indents per style guide

- After a few minutes you'll be prompted to reboot your computer; do so.
- You should see an open Powershell window, prompting you to enter a username and a password. Your username should be lowercase, but can otherwise be whatever suits you. You'll also need to enter a new password.

> - When entering your password you might notice that you aren't seeing any visual feedback. This is a standard security feature in Linux, and will also happen in all future cases where you need to enter some form of password. Rest assured that you are actually inputting something.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- When entering your password you might notice that you aren't seeing any visual feedback. This is a standard security feature in Linux, and will also happen in all future cases where you need to enter a password. Just type your password and hit <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
```

nit, but I thought this could be shortened as there aren't many forms of passwords. Do with the last sentence as you please, I thought I'd offer an alternative.

#### Step 1.3.1: Install Windows Terminal (Windows 10 only)

Windows Terminal is an terminal application that lets you more easily customize and run terminals, as well as supporting multiple tabs which can each run their own different terminals.

- [Install Window's Terminal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/terminal/install) by using the direct install option.

#### Step 1.3.2: Setting WSL2 as default (Optional)

> Unless you are regularly using other terminals on your computer we recommend that you set WSL as the default terminal program when you open Windows Terminal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unless you are regularly using other terminals on your computer we recommend that you set WSL2 as the default terminal program when you open Windows Terminal.
```

- Open Windows Terminal by searching for terminal in your applications.
- Click the dropdown next to the new tab button (at the top of the windows), and select Settings.
- You should see a Default Profile option with a dropdown next to it.
- In the dropdown select Ubuntu
- Click save at the bottom of the page

### Step 2 Opening WSL2

On Windows there are three primary ways to open WSL2.

> - If you set Windows Terminal to open a Ubuntu terminal by default you can start a new WSL2 session by simply opening the terminal app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If you set Windows Terminal to open a Ubuntu terminal by default you can start a new WSL2 session by opening the terminal app.
```

- Otherwise you can open Windows Terminal, click the dropdown next to the new tab button (at the top of the windows), and select Ubuntu.

> - If you search for Ubuntu in the application search bar you should see a application titled Ubuntu; simply open it to start a new terminal session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If you search for Ubuntu in the application search bar you should see a application titled Ubuntu; open it to start a new terminal session.
```

removed some mentions of "simply" since it is apparently used 11 times in this document and I started to notice it 😆

<div class="lesson-note lesson-note--tip">

> You might notice than when you open WSL2 via Windows Terminal you'll see a window with a different color scheme and a different icon then when opening by searching for Ubuntu in your applications. This is because Windows Terminal comes with a default color scheme for Ubuntu meant to emulate how a real Ubuntu terminal looks. This difference is purely cosmetic, and there is no practical difference between the two/

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You might notice when you open WSL2 via Windows Terminal, you'll see a window with a different color scheme and a different icon compared to opening a terminal through Ubuntu in your applications. This is because Windows Terminal comes with a default color scheme for Ubuntu meant to emulate how a real Ubuntu terminal looks. This difference is purely cosmetic, and there is no practical difference between the two.
```

Open to other suggestions but this sentence didn't sound right to me.

</div>

<div class="lesson-note lesson-note--warning">

> When opening WSL2 ensure that you do not see /mnt/c at the start of the line. /mnt/c is where your Windows installation lives when working within WSL2, and messing around there can have unintended consequences

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When opening your WSL2 terminal ensure that you do not see /mnt/c at the start of the line. /mnt/c is where your Windows installation lives when working within WSL2, and messing around there can have unintended consequences
```

Possible clarification. Learners might not be fully comfortable with the phraseology, but by now in this lesson they are very familiar with "terminal" and are creating the connection of WSL2 living in there.

</div>

### Step 1: Installations

#### Step 1.1: WSL2 and Virtual Machine Platform

In order to make WSL2 work we'll first need to ensure both `Windows Subsystem for Linux` and `Virtual Machine Platform` are enabled on your system.

- Search for Control Panel in your applications, and open it
- Select **Programs**
- Select **Turn Windows Features on or off** (under the Programs and Features header)
- Ensure both `Windows Subsystem for Linux` and `Virtual Machine Platform` are toggled on, and if not toggle them on.
- When prompted, restart your computer

#### Step 1.2: Installing WSL2

- Open PowerShell in administrator mode by searching for it in your applications, right clicking the top option, and then selecting run as administrator. You might get a prompt asking if you want to allow Windows Powershell to make changes to your device: click yes.
- Enter the following command

  ~~~powershell
  wsl --install

>   ~~~

Reviewer 4: Very small change, can you convert this codeblock over to using backtick fencing @Asartea ?

I only ask because we're already past this lesson in the process of updating the style, and I don't want the legacy style to sneak in.

Reviewer: ✅ Done

#### Step 1: Download Google Chrome

- Open your **Terminal**
- Run the following command to download latest **Google Chrome** `.deb` package

~~~bash
wget https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb
~~~

#### Step 2: Install Google Chrome

> 

Reviewer 3: side-catch: The command here needs indenting :)
